welcome to the man of recaps this is
dexter the full original series recap
seasons one through eight meet dexter
morgan a nice normal guy who works as a
forensic investigator for the miami pd
but by night he has a dark secret he is
a serial killer yes dexter has a monster
inside him that needs to kill he
eventually calls it his dark passenger
but he only kills very bad people so
it's kind of okay dexter's adoptive
father harry was a cop and recognized
this darkness inside him at a young age
so he gave dexter his code to only kill
really bad people and so every few weeks
dexter finds a target and no
tranquilizer needle being a forensics
investigator he knows how to not get
caught covers the whole room in plastic
first though he always collects a little
drop of blood those are his trophies he
hides them inside his air conditioning
unit then he chops up the bodies and
throws them in the bay dexter has a
sister deb who's also a cop she's real
crass and funny and even though dexter
claims he doesn't feel emotions he
clearly cares about her yes he claims he
doesn't feel emotions in all his social
interactions he's simply faking them
which ironically makes him kind of a
really likable guy now he's got a couple
friends on the force sergeant angel
batista lieutenant maria laguerta and
his fellow forensic tech masuka is super
horny always making sex jokes but
there's also sergeant james doakes
ex-special forces keen instincts know
something's wrong with dexter dexter's
got a girlfriend too to fit in as a
normal person her name's rita she's got
two kids who dexter actually seems to
really enjoy hanging with her ex-husband
was abusive and she's basically shut
down sexually that's just fine for
dexter he's basically asexual he gets
off on killing now dexter is a blood
spatter expert he can tell exactly how a
crime went down by the patterns of the
blood but there's a new killer in town
whose bodies have no blood yeah he
drains them first and dexter's got a
huge serial killer crush on this guy he
suspects this guy's working out of a
mobile refrigerated truck and when he
finds an ice truck he follows it and oh
they throw the head at him yeah season
one he's after the ice truck killer
turns out he has a serial killer crush
on dexter two snuck into his apartment
and left him a dismembered barbie doll
present in fact he starts leaving body
parts for dexter at important locations
from his past yeah it's something very
personal here and one day at a hotel
room that is absolutely covered in blood
it unlocks his memories to when he was a
real young kid and watched his mother be
chainsaw apart in front of him and yeah
theoretically that's what broke him
meanwhile there's a problem in rita's
life when her husband paul gets out of
jail he's on his best behavior now
though like hey i'm sorry i'm a changed
man i just really want to be with my
kids he is still clearly a douche bag
though and is a constant source of
annoyance for dexter so one day oh
knocks him out dexter frames him with a
heroin relapse and he's off to jail for
a long time and if you care about
batista's love life he's going through a
rough divorce now working with the
surviving victim is a hot prosthetics
doctor rudy cooper he and deb start
dating he seems like a great guy
actually befriends dexter but after a
complicated series of events dexter
figures out he is the ice truck killer
but deb doesn't know this yet so he
brings her on a boat where he proposes
but then kidnaps her dexter traces him
to a house dexter's childhood house
turns out this guy is his brother yeah
his real name's brian he was in that
shipping container full of blood with
dexter but as he was a little older he
was a little too deranged and instead of
getting adopted by a nice family he was
sent to an institution for his life he
wants dexter to reject terry's code by
killing his adopted sister deb but turns
out when push comes to shove dexter does
care about his sister deb and oh saves
her they have a final brother heart to
heart it's tragic because this is the
one person dexter could really be
himself with but the family that raised
him comes first and ho dexter kills his
brother luckily dexter comes up with a
good story as to why he's here so no one
knows his dark secret except dokes who
knows dexter's up to something in season
two the new serial killer dexter's
hunting is himself by pure dumb luck
some divers found dexter's stash of
bodies there's a bunch down there so
they're calling him the bay harbor
butcher with such a big body count
they're calling in the feds it's master
serial killer finder special agent frank
lundy and it's not just the feds in town
making killing difficult sergeant dokes
knows dexter's up to something and is
tailing him every night so dexter's got
to pretend to take up boring hobbies
like bowling but even with all that
dexter can't help himself he's got to
keep killing he just changes his dump
spot to further out in the ocean where
the gulf stream will carry the bodies
away things have gotten more serious
with rita though but there's a problem
with her ex-husband paul in prison
tragically paul dies in a prison fight
so rita feels bad and looks for the shoe
that would prove dexter did grab him
she's also noticed how dexter is
sometimes unreachable at night and comes
to the only logical conclusion luckily
not that he's a serial killer but he has
a drug problem of his own so she makes
dexter go to narcotics anonymous where
he meets this hot english girl lila lyle
is a crazy artist type likes to go
around stealing things like oh i can
make a sculpture out of this talking
about addiction together he realizes
that his need to kill is actually a lot
like addiction and he's like oh maybe
this will help she helps texas realize
that maybe to get over his addiction he
needs to track down the people that
killed his mom and you know kill them
but instead he calls his sponsor like
hey lyla i think i'm going to use again
and she talks him down he lets this guy
go and falls asleep in the comfort of
lila's arms nothing sexual happened but
rita hears a voicemail she left him
about how they spent the night together
and dumps his ass so he goes over to
lyles to talk about it and they talk
about it naked these two get it on yes
dexter has a full sexual awakening now
he can't get enough the next day rita
wants to make up she's like hey i'm
sorry i didn't give you a chance to
explain like nothing happened with you
and lila right and he's like well not
that night he tries the rust offense we
were on a break but it doesn't work and
they are dunzo for good his sister deb
does not approve of this english floozy
though and turns out she's right delilah
is crazy he burns down her apartment to
make dexter stay with her but when she
breaks into rita's house to see if he
was there he's like yo girl you crossed
a line i'm dumping you and getting back
with rita deb meanwhile is having
trouble dating after her last boyfriend
turned out to be a serial killer but
turns out she has a real crush on
special agent lundy and if you care
about batista's love life now he starts
dating lila even though dexter warned
him she's crazy and only dating him to
make dexter jealous meanwhile at work
dexter's doing everything he can to
sabotage the investigation of the bay
harbor butcher they have all his victims
in this refrigerated tent so he sneakily
unplugs it so in the morning oh the
evidence is all rotten but doakes is
still a huge problem he is on dexter all
the time he searches dexter's apartment
and with a lot of luck finds his blood
sample trophies so when dexter retracts
down the guy who killed his mom to his
cabin in the everglades was there
following him like ha i finally caught
you but dexter's able to get the upper
hand on him and locks him in a cage
meanwhile lundy has figured out that the
bay harbor butcher is one of the miami
pd dexter's brought in by a bunch of
agents he thinks the jig is up in fact
they have his bloodside samples but
luckily because doke stole them they
found them in his car and they think
doakes is the killer so this is very
convenient for dexterity but the fed's
just found jokes his car they're
searching the everglades dexter's gotta
rush back down there to make sure they
don't find him locked in the cage
there's no way dexter's gonna make it in
time but someone else was already on the
way it's lila yeah earlier she stole
dexter's gps and was tracking down his
latest location she finds out dexter is
the bay harbor butcher but she's like oh
i don't care i still love him so she
figures she'll help dexter out by
turning on the gas and exploding the
cabin so when the cops all arrive
there's no evidence stokes was held
prisoner here it seems like he was the
butcher and decided to kill himself
instead of being captured this is sad
for legueta though who was very close
with jokes and knows in her heart he was
innocent but now lyla's a big loose end
dexter meets with her and is like yo
girl thanks for helping me like let's
run away together i love you whoa but
when she realizes he didn't pack any
change of clothes just murder tools
she's like oh okay so she kidnaps rita's
kids then when dexter comes to save him
sets the whole thing on fire and locks
him in dexter gets the kids out of there
and boom bursts through the wall he's
okay lila skip to paris but dexter
tracks her down it's like hey when you
killed jokes that broke my code of who
you're allowed to kill so i get to kill
you now so season 3 begins with dexter
having picked out his next target a
girlfriend murdering drug dealer named
freebo but as dexter sneaks in to kill
him there's already someone else there
trying to kill him awkward these two end
up fighting and dexter ends up killing
this random guy and this turns into a
massive case because that guy was the
younger brother of district attorney
miguel prado so dexter finds freebo and
sets things right but wait what's this
miguel was here to kill freebo too
dexter's like ah it was self-defense but
miguel's like hey you don't have to
explain to me you avenged my brother
you're my new best friend as district
attorney miguel has a long list of bad
people that have escaped justice and
dexter is all too happy to help deliver
it to him so miguel and dexter start
hanging out all the time dexter's
excited to finally have a friend who
knows his dark passenger but accepts him
for it but in this season dexter also
gets an imaginary friend his adopted
father harry he shows up almost every
episode like come on dexter this isn't a
good idea but dex is like come on dad
you're harsh in my vibe by the way
dexter's sexual awakening last season
has carried on to his relationship with
rita but sex has a side effect and
pretty soon rita's pregnant dexter's
excited to be a father though and while
this relationship started out as cover
he's come to really love rita and the
kids dexter is a full-blown family man
now meanwhile at work dexter and the
cops are hunting down another killer
called the skinner deb has earned her
detective shield and she's got a new
partner detective joey quinn who is
mostly a good cop just a little dirty
and she's working with an informant a
cool stoner musician named anton who
naturally they start hooking up anton
ends up captured by the skinner but deb
figures out that at every murder site
there were freshly trimmed trees is the
skinner is the tree trimmer and deborah
saves anton just in time and if you care
about batista's love life he tries to
pick up a prostitute but she was an
undercover cop but they end up dating
now one day miguel wants to come along
with dexter and dexter lets him do the
killing did we just become best friends
now the person miguel hates the most is
a defense attorney who keeps getting
these bad guys off he wants to kill her
but dexter's like well she's kind of
just doing her job she doesn't fit the
code but miguel doesn't listen he goes
by himself and kills her oh dexter
you've created a monster dexter and
miguel tried to talk it out which does
not go well making it awkward because
he's the best man at dexter's bachelor
party so in the end dexter gets miguel
on his table i guess i wasn't meant to
have friends and oh he kills him but
before miguel died he sick the skinner
on dexter so dexter finds himself on
table of his own but pretty soon he
turns the table on this guy and kills
him with a signature chokehold per usual
the cops are coming right then dexter's
gonna be found out but he improvises and
sneaks away and season three ends on
dexter and rita's wedding day maybe he
really can have it all so in season four
dexter's the proud new papa of his baby
son harrison but a new baby is a lot of
work and dexter finds himself with
drastically reduced personal time to
pursue his own hobbies and things are
busy at work as miami has yet another
serial killer this time it's naked john
lithgow who kills young women in the
bathtub and coming back to miami to
catch him it's master serial killer
hunter special agent lundy when he calls
this guy the trinity killer because he
always kills in threes he starts with a
girl in the bathtub then forces a woman
to jump to her death then completes his
cycle by bludgeoning a man turns out
this cycle mirrors how his whole family
died when he was a kid there's a hot
reporter investigating and detective
quinn kind of a ladies man they start
dating and if you care about batista's
love life he starts hooking up with his
boss lieutenant maria laguerta in fact
these two get married so good for them
but their boring relationship starts
taking up way too much screen time and
with lundy in town deb's love life is
thrown into turmoil she's happily dating
anton but still has feelings for her ex
lundy and oh she chooses him i try not
to judge but come on girl he's old
enough to be your father but meanwhile
lundy is getting very close to catching
trinity so he and deb are saying good
night oh someone shoots them so much
trauma for poor deb he dies right in
front of her deb's gonna be okay but for
hurting his sister dexter makes finding
trinity his top priority but dexter's in
for quite a surprise when he finds out
trinity has a loving happy family
dexter's really been struggling lately
balancing family time with serial
killing he's got to find out how this
guy does it so he volunteers at the home
building charity under the fake name
kyle butler dexter befriends trinity who
seems to have it all figured out and
gets some man-to-man pointers on how to
balance family life with personal time
and for a while it seems to be going
great but at thanksgiving dexter finds
out this perfect family is a lie they
live in fear of him cause he's abusive
dexter's gonna kill him right then and
there but the family interrupts and now
dexter's cover is blown meanwhile deb
realizes that it couldn't be trinity who
shot her it was someone shorter someone
about the height of quinn's hot reporter
girlfriend who turns out is trinity's
secret other daughter she loves her
daddy and wants his approval but when
she realizes she's never gonna get it
her father hates her she kills herself
oh quinn that's rough buddy so now
trinity's killing kyle butler is looking
for dexter but pretty soon he tracks him
down and finds dexter's real identity so
dexter sends rita and the baby away on a
weekend trip to the keys i'll join you
after work today the cops finally find
trinity's house but he thinks he got
away but he didn't get away from dexter
who tracks him down and finally kills
him he helped extra learn that he's not
a monster he loves his family they're
the most important thing in his life so
he's excited to join him on the trip but
turns out rita came back home because
she forgot something and while dexter
was out hunting for him trinity came
here and killed rita no
dexter's infant son harrison's mother
murdered in front of him just like
dexter oh it's tragic so in season 5
dexter is devastated by rita's death
astra and cody were at disney world with
their grandparents and dexter gives them
maybe the worst i'm sorry your mom got
murdered speech i've ever heard they go
off to live with grandma and grandpa and
are mostly never seen again baby
harrison is staying with dexter though
this season he hires an irish nanny who
gets a lot of screen time but none of
it's noteworthy dexter's way of grieving
is to busy himself with murder he finds
a lowlife who's been killing women and
dumping them in barrels but dexter
didn't check the attic where he has
another woman prisoner right now hey
it's julia stiles she's a witness to his
murder so dexter can't just let her go
and it's awkward for a while as he tries
to explain hey i'm a good guy but yes
i'm keeping you hostage eventually he's
like okay i'm gonna trust you here i
saved your life so keep me out of your
story but turns out that guy wasn't
working alone there were a whole group
of them abusing her she's like hey you
want to help me track him down and kill
him and dexter is fully erect her name
is lumen which of course is not a name
dexter helps her kill one of these guys
and long story short these two bond
realizing someone's to them the barrel
guys go to remove the evidence but oh a
random car accident and now the barrel
girl's case is all over the police radar
now the truck belonged to jordan chase a
big time motivational speaker his whole
motto is take it which should be a dead
giveaway he's rapist he has an airtight
alibi though so the cops can't touch him
which just means more for dexter and
lumen first they get his head of
security who is also in on it and it's
nice for dexter to have someone there
like yeah you're doing a good thing here
in fact lumen wants to kill the next one
herself so dexter shows her the ropes
and she ow stabs him dexter's even
erector lumens emotions are running wild
too so these two get it on and dexter's
in love rita who speaking of love if you
care about batista and luguerta's
marriage you know never mind you don't
deb has been partnered with quinn for a
while now and one day these two get it
on but quinn is looking into the kyle
butler that trinity's family described
to the worst police sketch artist in the
country but if you combine all three
sketches it does kind of look like
dexter so quinn hires a disgraced former
cop to look into dexter off the books
and this guy discovers dexter's
definitely up to something but as things
get more serious with deb quinn doesn't
want to be secretly investigating her
brother but this guy doesn't want to
stop he hopes crack in this case will
land him his job back one day he gets to
jump on dexter and is going to turn him
in but he underestimates how much of
killer dexter is just then quinn was
coming to meet him and finds the van
locked but some of his blood drips on
quinn's shoe so when they eventually
find the body and the blood on quinn's
shoe he doesn't have an explanation but
deborah likes this guy so dexter fudges
the blood work to clear his name and
quinn's like hey thanks man you know
what i don't care what your secret is
we're cool now jordan chase is a high
profile target dexter has to sign up for
morning workout classes with him to get
close to him soon he discovers that
jordan wears a vial of blood around his
neck so dexter tests it and it leads
them to a woman who was their first
victim yeah they were all best friends
back at summer camp but somehow jordan
noticed the imperceptible amount of
blood missing and turns out this woman
is weirdly in love with him so he uses
her to lure lumen into a trap and take
her down to the summer camp dexter
botches the rescue mission but while
jordan's monologuing he oh snaps him in
the foot and gets him in his signature
choke hold so now they have the final
guy the ring leader at their mercy and
lumen oh gets her revenge now deb is a
pretty good detective and has figured
out that one of the escaped barrel girls
is hunting down these guys with a male
friend and she finds the summer camp
just in time to discover dexter and
lumen behind a conveniently opaque tarp
but deb decides these guys deserved it
i'm gonna let you go that was a close
one dexter and so lumen's quest for
vengeance is over she and dexter can
live happily ever after but in the
morning she gives him the sorry i'm
dumping you look she's like hey man the
revenge murder spree was fun but i gotta
go back to my normal life and so it's
sad for dexter he thought he finally
found someone who could love him despite
his dark passenger but that was too good
to be true dexter's destined to be alone
so in season six dexter is in single dad
mode and when he considers sending
harrison to a catholic preschool this
season becomes all about religion dexter
befriends ex-convicts turned body shop
owner brother sam played by most deaf
who's a religious leader for the
community he's like hey man you may have
a dark passenger but god's light's still
inside you but when he gets killed
dexter does not turn the other cheek and
the villains this season are religious
too crazy old professor geller is the
mentor to travis played by colin hanks
they are the doomsday killers hoping to
bring about armageddon by killing people
in these book of revelations tableaus
with dexter's serial killer radar he
quickly discovers travis but when he
gets him he realizes that this kid has
just been brainwashed it's professor
geller he wants so he convinces this kid
to reject his old mentor and help dexter
find him and kill him meanwhile if you
care about batista and legueta's
marriage actually they split up they
decide they're better as just friends
but deb and quinn have gotten more
serious in fact one day he proposes but
it's like bro we never even discussed
marriage you can't just spring this on a
girl and so these two break up quinn
does not handle the breakup well he goes
on a season-long bender and is basically
way out of line meanwhile legueta is
promoted and captain matthew's pick for
the new lieutenant of homicide is deb
yeah she's really young but soon proves
herself to be a great lieutenant she
just needs to learn not to curse on live
tv to handle all this new stress in her
life deb starts seeing a therapist who
needs her license revoked because she
says hey the root of all your problems
is you're secretly in love with your
adopted brother dexter no come on we are
not doing this plotline another way you
can tell there are no female writers
left on this show is the way masuka's
new intern acts she's into serial killer
stuff but she puts the ice truck
killer's hand up on ebay to make some
extra cash so mizuka's gotta fire her
his next interns this nerd named lewis
who's a real computer whiz he hits it
off with jaime who is batista's younger
sister and also dexter's new full-time
nanny now he's a video game designer and
wants dexter's input on his new game
where you play a serial killer but
dexter shuts him down hard like hey who
would want to be a serial killer but
turns out lewis has some secrets of his
own he's the one who bought the ice
truck killer hand and he mails it to
dexter as part of his revenge plot more
on that next season so now dexter and
travis are hunting down professor geller
but dexter finds that geller's been dead
for a while yes it's been just travis
all along it's a psycho situation so
travis makes dexter the victim in his
latest tableau the lake of fire but
dexter is fine then travis kidnaps young
harrison on the day of the eclipse one
final sacrifice to bring about
armageddon but dexter shows up hey let
him go i'm the one you want and
tranquilizes himself so he's not a
threat but dexter was faking he knocks
travis out and brings him to the church
to kill him meanwhile though the cops
were also hot on travis's tail and it's
kind of weird he disappeared without a
trace so deb goes down to the church
just in time to see dexter
ritualistically kill him oh dexter deb
finally gotcha so season seven starts
right there deb's like dexter what the f
dexter's like uh would you believe
self-defense and deb's like yeah it's
weird you wrapped him in plastic first
but i guess so deb get some gas to cover
up dexter's involvement they burn the
church down and rule it to suicide but
deb's too good a detective for this and
she starts to remember how she was
wrapped in plastic on dexter's table
back in season one so she searches his
apartment finds all his killer stuff and
realizes her brother dexter is the bay
harbor butcher so the siblings have a
long talk dexter fills her in on
everything his traumatic past his dark
passenger harry's code her first
reaction's like hey killing's an
addiction for you i'll be your sponsor
and we'll get you clean dexter's like yo
we already tried this in season two he
tries to explain to her that he's making
the world a better place by killing bad
people that escape justice but deb's not
hearing it until there's a guy who likes
to dress up as a minotaur and kill girls
in his homemade labyrinth he gets off in
a technicality so dexter handles it his
way and deb has to admit yeah that guy
deserved it so the siblings are back to
a new normal meanwhile one night the new
detective mike anderson stops a guy
who's got a dead body in his trunk and
oh he gets shot the investigation leads
to a ukrainian mob owned strip club and
they film at least one scene there every
episode so they have an excuse to show
some boobs but dexter solves the case
first and kills this guy himself but
this gets the attention of the big boss
isaac circo because that guy was his
boyfriend by the way lewis is continuing
his vendetta against dexter for no good
reason and i guess he's going to try to
sink his boat and he's in the wrong
place at the wrong time circo kills him
so circo and dexter play cat and mouse
all season eventually though he starts
getting reckless and the koshka
brotherhood decides it's time to take
him out so circle's like hey dexter help
me take them out and we'll call it even
but in the end this other guy gets him
so an extra buries him at sea with his
love speaking of love if you care about
quinn's love life he starts dating one
of the strippers when her boss threatens
her quinn straight up shoots this guy
then has to stage it like he shot first
but then the girl skips town and leaves
him to go start a new life that's rough
buddy the other main plot of season
seven involves dexter's love life when
he meets hannah mckay yeah that's yvonne
strahovsky back in her youth she went on
a bonnie and clyde crime spree with her
boyfriend and he killed some people
though she never did but they just now
found some of the bodies he buried and
it's obvious to dexter she did kill some
of them and since then there's been
mysterious deaths all around her seems
like she's poisoning people so dexter's
planning to kill her instead he kind of
flirts with her and accidentally asks
her on a date it's a cute date at
santa's enchanted forest but it takes a
weird twist when he plastic wraps her
naked to the table but she's like jokes
on you i'm into this and instead of
killing her they get it on she's totally
unfazed that dexter's a killer because
she's one too but she doesn't have any
dark passenger need to kill she just
poisons people that get in her way and
so dexter's finally found someone who
knows his secret and accepts him for it
he falls in love but deb does not
approve she has it out for hannah trying
to arrest her but soon after it dips in
a mysterious car crash when she fell
asleep behind the wheel she's like yo
dex hannah poisoned me and when dexter
finds the proof he's like hey girl i
love you but you crossed a line my
sister's off limits he exposes her and
she goes to jail although she
immediately fake poisons herself and
escapes so she'll be back meanwhile
another plot this season laguerta is on
to dexter back in the church he lost his
blood slide she never believed doakes
was the butcher and now she knows the
real one's still out there so when the
last of the guys who killed dexter's mom
is getting out of jail dexter's excited
to finally kill him but it was a trap
laguerta got onto dexter and he barely
makes it out in time but eventually she
gets some hard evidence and the moments
here dexter's finally brought in as the
bay arbor butcher but the evidence
doesn't hold up in fact dexter planted
it and made it look like laguerta
planted it to discredit her but she
still doesn't let up and eventually
finds the video of deb getting gas right
next to the church right before it
burned down so dexter can't see any
other way out of this he's going to have
to kill laguerta his father harry is
like dexter you can't kill leguerta
she's not even close to fitting the code
but dexter's like screw you ghost dad
don't forget rule number one was don't
get caught so dexter lures leguerte into
a trap but deb comes to stop him come on
dexter this is going too far aguerta
wakes up like deb do the right thing and
deb is faced with an impossible choice
and deb decides to shoot laguerta oh she
protected her brother by killing an
innocent woman and a co-worker and
friend and so that brings us to season a
to the final season legueta's death was
successfully covered up but deb is not
handling it well she quit the police
force and is on a bender dating a jewel
thief dexter tracks her down like cases
are you okay but she's like yeah i'm
fine i'm undercover right now as a
bounty hunter plus i kind of never want
to see you again cause you ruined my
life fair and so for now life gets back
to normal there's another new serial
killer in miami this one called the
brain surgeon because he cuts out part
of the brain to help with this one they
bring in dr evelyn vogel who is a
psychopath specialist in fact she knows
all about dexter has his childhood
drawings she's like yeah dexter i
created you turns out harry didn't come
up with the code by himself he went to
dr vogel for help with young dex and it
was her idea to give dexter the code
funnel his psychopathy into something
good and now she needs dexter's help
because the brain surgeon is one of her
former patients that's after her she
wants dexter to go kill him first
meanwhile deb is continuing to spiral so
dexter sets her up with dr vogel who
tries to convince her she's not a bad
person dexter tries to work things out
between them but she thinks the best
thing to do is to run the car off the
road and kill them both deb feels bad
though and changes her mind so their
relationship is still rocky but dr
vogel's like hey this is progress
eventually the brain surgeon reveals
himself and dexter takes him out then
while dumping the body they have a
tender moment on the boat and deb kind
of accepts herself and her brother so
once again the siblings are back to a
new new normal it's soon shaken up
though when they both pass out yeah
hannah's back in town she doesn't kill
them though this was just a friendly
poisoning she and dexter have a ketchup
turns out she married a yacht
billionaire but he's super possessive of
her so when dexter comes to save her
she's already killed him it's like hey
we probably shouldn't get back together
but they can't help themselves they get
it on in fact dexter comes to a big
decision he's ready to leave his life in
miami behind and run away with hannah to
argentina and at this point deb is sick
of fighting it she's like you know maybe
it's for the best so dexter with the
cover story says farewell to the life he
built all the friends he pretended to
make as part of his cover have now
become real he does care about these
people where do they all end up well
batista's where he always belonged as
lieutenant homicide and he gives deb her
shield back she's back on the force if
you care about quinn's love life he
starts dating batista's sister jamie but
they eventually break up and he and deb
get back together and masuka meets a new
hot young co-ed but turns out she's his
daughter from back when he was a sperm
donor and so he finally gets some
character growth as he learns how to
interact with women without hitting on
him but there's a final twist when the
brain surgeon strikes again yeah the
other guy was a decoy the real brain
surgeon is dr vogel's son he was a
psychopath who killed his brother and dr
vogel couldn't help him so she shipped
him off to an institution and he harbors
a lot of resentment for his mom and he's
jealous of dexter so he kills her in
front of him long story short dexter
tracks him down but as he's going to
kill him he's like you know what i don't
even really want to i've grown past my
need to kill i just want to go be with
my girlfriend and son so he calls dab
like hey you can arrest this guy and
it's like hey bro i'm so proud of you
but meanwhile the us marshals are
looking for hannah and they suspect
she's hiding out with deb so this guy
follows deb and is the first inside and
unwittingly unties a serial killer so
when deb gets in he's got the gun and
now shoots dab luckily deb's gonna be
fine she's like go on bro get out of
here so it looks like a happy ending but
as they're leaving town dexter's like
hey i can't go till i've killed that guy
and made sure deb safe so dexter says
goodbye to his son harrison sends him
and hannah on ahead i'll be right behind
you on the next bus back at the hospital
the brain surgeon comes for deb but the
cops were here waiting for him so
everything's gonna be okay but wait
there's another twist deb had random
complications from surgery sorry she's
brain dead what is this roller coaster
dexter wants revenge but he can't kill
this guy while he's in police custody so
he's like hey i'm gonna kill you with
this pen yeah he goes this guy into
attacking him first so he's able to oh
claim it was self-defense but killing
him didn't bring deb back so dexter
comes to a resolution he goes back to
the hospital as a hurricane comes in i'm
sorry deb this is my fault but i'm not
gonna leave you like this and he pulls
the plug on his sister he takes her down
to his boat to give her the burial at
sea i guess symbolic because he feels
like it's his fault so she's one of his
victims meanwhile hannah gets caught on
the bus she offers this guy a drink but
he's like yo i know you're a poisoner
how dumb do you think i am so she takes
a play from dexter's book and just stabs
him with the needle she's like hey dex
we're boarding the plane for argentina
and he's like cool see you soon but wait
dexter what are you doing he throws his
phone overboard yes he's decided that he
ruins the lives of everyone he loves and
they're better off without him so to
protect them from himself dexter drives
his boat into the hurricane they find
the wreckage so the world thinks
dexter's dead and hannah's stuck raising
his kid harrison in argentina but
there's a final scene in a lumber yard
somewhere cold yeah dexter survived and
is living a life of solitude as a
lumberjack yes it's a famously
disappointing ending instead of living
happily ever after with his girlfriend
and son he's here by himself because
deb's death made him feel bad but here
we are and that's how dexter comes to an
end except now dexter's coming back in a
new limited series what adventures will
he get up to will we get to more
satisfying ending find out in dexter new
blood if you like this recap hit that
subscribe button for more of the best
recaps of tv and movies and if you loved
this recap check out the join button and
support the channel as a member